.TH PSTREE 1 2011-02-22 "Linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pstree \- display a tree of processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B pstree
.RB [ \-a | \-\-arguments ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-compact ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-highlight\-all | \-H \fIpid\fB | \-\-highlight\-pid\ \fIpid\fB ]
.RB [ \-l | \-\-long ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-numeric\-sort ]
.RB [ \-p | \-\-show\-pids ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-show\-parents ]
.RB [ \-u | \-\-uid\-changes ]
.RB [ \-Z | \-\-security\-context ]
.RB [ \-A | \-\-ascii | \-G | \-\-vt100 | \-U | \-\-unicode ]
.RB [ \fIpid\fB | \fIuser\fB]
.br
.B pstree
.RB \-V | \-\-version
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pstree
shows running processes as a tree. The tree is rooted at either
\fIpid\fP or \fBinit\fP if \fIpid\fP is omitted. If a user name is specified,
all process trees rooted at processes owned by that user are shown.
.PP
\fBpstree\fP visually merges identical branches by putting them in square
brackets and prefixing them with the repetition count, e.g.
.nf
.sp
    init\-+\-getty
         |\-getty
         |\-getty
         `\-getty
.sp
.fi
becomes
.nf
.sp
    init\-\-\-4*[getty]
.sp
.fi
.PP
.PP
Child threads of a process are found under the parent process and are shown
with the process name in curly braces, e.g.
.nf
.sp
    icecast2\-\-\-13*[{icecast2}]
.sp
.fi
.PP
If \fBpstree\fR is called as \fBpstree.x11\fR then it will prompt the user
at the end of the line to press return and will not return until that
has happened. This is useful for when \fBpstree\fR is run in a xterminal.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-a\fP
Show command line arguments. If the command line of a process is swapped out,
that process is shown in parentheses. \fB\-a\fP implicitly disables compaction
for processes but not threads.
.IP \fB\-A\fP
Use ASCII characters to draw the tree.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
Disable compaction of identical subtrees. By default, subtrees are compacted
whenever possible.
.IP \fB\-G\fP
Use VT100 line drawing characters.
.IP \fB\-h\fP
Highlight the current process and its ancestors. This is a no-op if the
terminal doesn't support highlighting or if neither the current process
nor any of its ancestors are in the subtree being shown.
.IP \fB\-H\fP
Like \fB\-h\fP, but highlight the specified process instead. Unlike with
\fB\-h\fP, \fBpstree\fP fails when using \fB\-H\fP if highlighting is not
available.
.IP \fB\-l\fP
Display long lines. By default, lines are truncated to the display width or
132 if output is sent to a non-tty or if the display width is unknown.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Sort processes with the same ancestor by PID instead of by name. (Numeric
sort.)
.IP \fB\-p\fP
Show PIDs. PIDs are shown as decimal numbers in parentheses after each
process name. \fB\-p\fP implicitly disables compaction.
.IP \fB\-s\fP
Show parent processes of the specified process.
.IP \fB\-u\fP
Show uid transitions. Whenever the uid of a process differs from the uid of
its parent, the new uid is shown in parentheses after the process name.
.IP \fB\-U\fP
Use UTF-8 (Unicode) line drawing characters. Under Linux 1.1-54 and above,
UTF-8 mode is entered on the console with \fBecho \-e '\\033%8'\fP and left
with \fBecho \-e '\\033%@'\fP
.IP \fB\-V\fP
Display version information.
.IP \fB\-Z\fP
(SELinux) Show security context for each process. This flag will only work if
pstree is compilied with SELinux support.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc	location of the proc file system
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Werner Almesberger <werner@almesberger.net>
Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.SH BUGS
Some character sets may be incompatible with the VT100 characters.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps "(1), " top (1).
.\"{{{}}}
